README.md, before:

# Schafkopf
This is an Open Source implementation of the bavarian card game **Schafkopf**, forked from https://github.com/thielepaul/Schafkopf and enhanced. It's work in progress.

Build and run it on your own server with docker: `docker build Schafkopf -t schafkopf && docker run -p 80:80 schafkopf`.

When trying out, note that first all 4 players must connect. Use Firefox' Multi-Account Container Extension or similar.

What can this app offer you:
* Play Schafkopf with friends in their browser
* No logins, no registration, no ads
* It's Open Source: feel free to adapt it to your needs
* No data is stored permanently on the server

Note, that this is a German game so everything in the game is in German.

## Features
* Sauspiel
* Farbsolo
* Bettel (w/o Heart as trump)
* Wenz
* Geier
* Hochzeit
* Ramsch
* Legen/Klopfen after one has received half of the cards
* Contra/Re/Sup/... (Default: according to schafkopfschule.de rules, i.e. before 2nd card of trick 1 is played)
* Chat
* More than 4 Players (additional players can spectate if not playing)

## Screenshots

![screenshot of app in light mode](screenshots/light.png "Light Mode")

![screenshot of app in dark mode](screenshots/dark.png "Dark Mode")

## Development

### Setup Instructions

This is a .NET 6.0 core project. To set up your development environment:

1. **Install .NET SDK**: Check out https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download for more information about .NET

2. **Generate HTTPS Developer Certificate** (required):
   ```bash
   dotnet dev-certs https
   ```
   This creates a self-signed certificate needed to run the application locally. You only need to do this once per development machine.

3. **Restore NuGet Packages**:
   ```bash
   dotnet restore
   ```

4. **Build the Project**:
   ```bash
   dotnet build
   ```

5. **Run the Application**:
   ```bash
   cd Schafkopf
   dotnet run
   ```
   The application will be available at:
   - HTTP: http://localhost:5000
   - HTTPS: https://localhost:5001

6. **Watch Mode** (for development with auto-reload):
   ```bash
   dotnet watch run
   ```

### Development Tips

- If you want to play this on a single computer during development, append `&session=new` to the URL to create a new session instead of reconnecting to an existing one.
- For troubleshooting setup issues, see [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) which contains detailed setup instructions and solutions for common problems.

## Server Installation
In case you want to run the application behind a reverse proxy using nginx, you could use the following configuration to handle the required websocket properly:
```
map $http_upgrade $connection_upgrade {
   default upgrade;
   '' close;
}

upstream schafkopf_docker {
    server 0.0.0.0:9080;
}

server {
    listen 80;
    listen [::]:80;
    server_name    schafkopf.example.com;
    root           /var/www/html;
    index          index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;

    return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
}

server {
    listen 443 ssl;
    listen [::]:443 ssl;
    server_name    schafkopf.example.com;
    
    # In case you are using letsencrypt for your certificates
    ssl_certificate    /etc/letsencrypt/live/schafkopf.example.com/fullchain.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key    /etc/letsencrypt/live/schafkopf.example.com/privkey.pem;

    root           /var/www/html;
    index          index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;


    location / {
        proxy_set_header   Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header   Connection $connection_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header   Host $host;
        proxy_pass http://schafkopf_docker;
    }
}
```

Commit message:

fix: configure app to listen on all interfaces for dev container accessibility
- Changed launchSettings.json to bind to 0.0.0.0 instead of localhost
- This allows the dev container to be accessible from the host machine (Chrome browser)
- Port forwarding is configured in devcontainer.json (ports 5000, 5001)
- Updated documentation to explain dev container port forwarding

README.md, after:

# Schafkopf
This is an Open Source implementation of the bavarian card game **Schafkopf**, forked from https://github.com/thielepaul/Schafkopf and enhanced. It's work in progress.

Build and run it on your own server with docker: `docker build Schafkopf -t schafkopf && docker run -p 80:80 schafkopf`.

When trying out, note that first all 4 players must connect. Use Firefox' Multi-Account Container Extension or similar.

What can this app offer you:
* Play Schafkopf with friends in their browser
* No logins, no registration, no ads
* It's Open Source: feel free to adapt it to your needs
* No data is stored permanently on the server

Note, that this is a German game so everything in the game is in German.

## Features
* Sauspiel
* Farbsolo
* Bettel (w/o Heart as trump)
* Wenz
* Geier
* Hochzeit
* Ramsch
* Legen/Klopfen after one has received half of the cards
* Contra/Re/Sup/... (Default: according to schafkopfschule.de rules, i.e. before 2nd card of trick 1 is played)
* Chat
* More than 4 Players (additional players can spectate if not playing)

## Screenshots

![screenshot of app in light mode](screenshots/light.png "Light Mode")

![screenshot of app in dark mode](screenshots/dark.png "Dark Mode")

## Development

### Setup Instructions

This is a .NET 6.0 core project. To set up your development environment:

1. **Install .NET SDK**: Check out https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download for more information about .NET

2. **Generate HTTPS Developer Certificate** (required):
   ```bash
   dotnet dev-certs https
   ```
   This creates a self-signed certificate needed to run the application locally. You only need to do this once per development machine.

3. **Restore NuGet Packages**:
   ```bash
   dotnet restore
   ```

4. **Build the Project**:
   ```bash
   dotnet build
   ```

5. **Run the Application**:
   ```bash
   cd Schafkopf
   dotnet run
   ```
   The application will be available at:
   - HTTP: http://localhost:5000
   - HTTPS: https://localhost:5001

   **Note for Dev Container Users**: If you're running this in VS Code Dev Container, the container is configured with port forwarding. VS Code will automatically detect the running application and may show a notification to open it.

6. **Watch Mode** (for development with auto-reload):
   ```bash
   dotnet watch run
   ```

### Development Tips

- If you want to play this on a single computer during development, append `&session=new` to the URL to create a new session instead of reconnecting to an existing one.
- For troubleshooting setup issues, see [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) which contains detailed setup instructions and solutions for common problems.

## Server Installation
In case you want to run the application behind a reverse proxy using nginx, you could use the following configuration to handle the required websocket properly:
```
map $http_upgrade $connection_upgrade {
   default upgrade;
   '' close;
}

upstream schafkopf_docker {
    server 0.0.0.0:9080;
}

server {
    listen 80;
    listen [::]:80;
    server_name    schafkopf.example.com;
    root           /var/www/html;
    index          index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;

    return 301 https://$host$request_uri;
}

server {
    listen 443 ssl;
    listen [::]:443 ssl;
    server_name    schafkopf.example.com;
    
    # In case you are using letsencrypt for your certificates
    ssl_certificate    /etc/letsencrypt/live/schafkopf.example.com/fullchain.pem;
    ssl_certificate_key    /etc/letsencrypt/live/schafkopf.example.com/privkey.pem;

    root           /var/www/html;
    index          index index.html index.htm index.nginx-debian.html;


    location / {
        proxy_set_header   Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header   Connection $connection_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header   Host $host;
        proxy_pass http://schafkopf_docker;
    }
}
```
